There's nothing to reconcile. Pro-life doesn't mean 'against (needless) death', it means anti-abortion. [The same is true for the opposite label: Pro-choice means in favor of legal access to abortion, not necessarily in favor of all individual choices (eg regarding assisted suicide or drug policies).]  ..People supporting "Pro-life" can still support the death penalty, wars, restricted access to healthcare (for the poor), terrorist attacks against abortion providers, denial of healthcare to pregnant women even in case of a non-viable fetus, etc...Response to the lax attitude regarding human life has been minimal, as that is not their issue; abortions are. The focus during this crisis by anti-abortion groups seems to be to further attack legal access to abortion. The SBA List coronavirus page or the Live Action news page eg focus on denying access to abortion &amp; defunding abortion providers during the crisis...The few responses I was able to find are not from groups, but individuals, and seem to argue in the same direction as you mention: Relativizing the deaths by downplaying the risk &amp; impact and saying that a weak economy will also have a price. Eg:  ...  economic hardship without a clear path to recovery imperils lives too (as evidence by a 300% spike in calls to the National Suicide Prevention Hotline); [...] targeted isolation of and care for the elderly is entirely possible while allowing the younger and healthier to go about their lives....Others take a more utilitarian approach, weighing the "lives saved" due to denied access to abortion during the crisis vs deaths from coronavirus...At least some individual people who hold anti-abortion views have opposed the economy > life view. The following quote is attributed to Rep. Cheney, though I was only able to find it by Erick Erickson:...  Letting the virus spread to your parents and grandparents to protect your 401k is not pro-life....Russell Moore argues along the same lines in a NYT opinion piece, though without explicitly mentioning abortion or "pro-life"..
