The WHO was clearly wary that human-to-human transmission may be a factor at the beginning of January - although their initial Disease Outbreak News (DON) of January 5th entitled "Pneumonia of unknown cause – China" states that:...  According to the authorities, some patients were operating dealers or.  vendors in the Huanan Seafood market. Based on the preliminary.  information from the Chinese investigation team, no evidence of.  significant human-to-human transmission and no health care worker.  infections have been reported....They also note that all patients are being isolated, and that close contacts of patients are being identified and monitored, which indicates that this avenue was being investigated...Further advice published on 10th January also indicated that:...  From the currently available information, preliminary investigation.  suggests that there is no significant human-to-human transmission, and.  no infections among health care workers have occurred....But again, warned that travellers should take measures such as...  .  avoiding close contact with people suffering from acute respiratory infections;.  frequent hand-washing, especially after direct contact with ill people or their environment;.  travellers with symptoms of acute respiratory infection should practice cough etiquette (maintain distance, cover coughs and sneezes.  with disposable tissues or clothing, and wash hands)..  ...According to the WHO COVID-19 Timeline's entry for January 14th:...  Dr. Maria Van Kerkhove noted in a press briefing there had been.  limited human-to-human transmission of the coronavirus (in the 41.  confirmed cases), mainly through family members, and that there was a.  risk of a possible wider outbreak. Dr. Kerkhove noted that.  human-to-human transmission would not be surprising given our.  experience with SARS, MERS and other respiratory pathogens....After WHO officials from its China and Western Pacific regional offices conducted a brief field visit to Wuhan from the 20th-21st of Jan, the latter office published a twitter thread on January 21st stating that as a result of the increasing number of cases of the virus; "It is now very clear [...] that there is at least some human-to-human transmission of #nCoV2019". The thread also states that "more information and analysis are needed on this new virus to understand the full extent of human-to-human transmission and other important details". ..Additionally, on the 21st of January, the DON for the spread of the disease in the Republic of Korea contained the phrase "the extent of human-to-human transmission", the first DON not to question the existence of human-to-human transmission, but rather its extent...A more formal announcement was made by the WHO mission to China on the 22nd of January which states that:...  Data collected through detailed epidemiological investigation and.  through the deployment of the new test kit nationally suggests that.  human-to-human transmission is taking place in Wuhan. More analysis of.  the epidemiological data is needed to understand the full extent of.  human-to-human transmission. WHO stands ready to provide support to.  China to conduct further detailed analysis....In conclusion then, while human-to-human transmission was suspected to be present from the initial WHO DON on January 5th, this was not confirmed until after data observed in the field in Wuhan by members of the WHO China &amp; Western Pacific regional offices was thought to show that human-to-human transmission was clearly a factor. These field investigations took place on the 20th-21st of January, and announcements acknowledging this conclusion were first made on the 21st..
