The Department of Labor has a nifty Q&amp;A page (Questions 2 and 3 in particular). In short, private sector corporations are considered as a single employer and thus count each employee within the company. If the employee count is greater than 500 the corporation in question is exempt from paid leave due to COVID-19..For what kind of coverage a smaller company can expect, this fact sheet also provided by DoL states that:...  Generally, the Act provides that employees of covered employers are eligible for:.  .  .  Two weeks (up to 80 hours) of paid sick leave at the employee’s regular rate of pay where the employee is unable to work because the employee is quarantined (pursuant to Federal, State, or local government order or advice of a health care provider), and/or experiencing COVID-19 symptoms and seeking a medical diagnosis; or.  Two weeks (up to 80 hours) of paid sick leave at two-thirds the employee’s regular rate of pay because the employee is unable to work because of a bona fide need to care for an individual subject to quarantine (pursuant to Federal, State, or local government order or advice of a health care provider), or to care for a child (under 18 years of age) whose school or child care provider is closed or unavailable for reasons related to COVID-19, and/or the employee is experiencing a substantially similar condition as specified by the Secretary of Health and Human Services, in consultation with the Secretaries of the Treasury and Labor; and.  Up to an additional 10 weeks of paid expanded family and medical leave at two-thirds the employee’s regular rate of pay where an employee, who has been employed for at least 30 calendar days, is unable to work due to a bona fide need for leave to care for a child whose school or child care provider is closed or unavailable for reasons related to COVID-19..  ...To summarize, paid leave applies if the private sector employee shows symptoms of COVID-19, is told to self-quarantine by health care provider, is quarantined by federal/state/local order, or if employee is taking care of a family member that qualifies for one of the above reasons or if employee's child(ren) is stuck at home due to school/daycare closures related to COVID-19...Federal employees are still covered by Title II of the Family and Medical Leave Act, which was not amended by the Families First Coronavirus Response Act..
