Rarely does one see so many misconceptions in one question! ...  .    coach will definitely or almost certainly be stopped in Switzerland for checks on luggage and things, can I risk being seized all my money by Swiss authorities or will I have to give them something?.    ....    I've been told that Swiss authorities are quite ruthless..    ....    but even if they are scrupulous about this thing and ignore this rule because of their meticoulousness in everything, that is the least of my concerns. The problem is that if they check all my luggage and find a locked box with my savings, they could make up any excuse to take my savings away, and in that case I cannot appeal, get justice or nothing..    ....    No, I wasn't meaning that I want to bribe them, I was meaning whether they will ASK me a percentage of my money. .  ...No, you need not fear that Swiss Customs will seize all your money...you don't even have to declare it ...Switzerland Customs: Cash, foreign currencies, securities ...  Unrestricted amounts of liquid funds, i.e. cash, foreign currency and securities (shares, bonds and cheques) can be imported into Switzerland, brought through Switzerland in transit or exported from Switzerland. Furthermore, the funds do not need to be declared......When traveling crossing over any European Union country border, on the other hand, you ...may be required to declare any money amount >= € 10.000 ...Rules for carrying alcohol, tobacco, cash in the EU and leaving and entering the EU ...Switzerland is not an European Union country ...so must be declared when leaving Italy and entering Germany or France.....  Carrying cash.  If you plan to enter or leave the EU with EUR 10 000 euros or more in cash (or the equivalent in other currencies) you must declare it to the customs authorities. Failure to do so could result in your cash being retained by the customs authorities, and you may receive a fine. Be aware that the customs authorities may carry out individual checks as well as checks on your baggage and/or vehicle..  .  If you want to travel between EU countries (in this case, the 28 EU member states) with EUR 10 000 euros or more in cash (or the equivalent in other currencies), you must check with the customs authorities in the countries you are leaving, entering and passing through whether you must declare it......This means that you will have to properly inform yourself about each Customs authority in (depending on your route between Italy and Belgium) ...Italy, Germany, France and Belgium ...based on the IATA information seem to be the same for the 4 countries .....  Currency Import regulations:.  Same regulations as for Export apply..  .  Currency Export regulations:.  Local currency (Euro - EUR) and foreign currencies: no restrictions if arriving from or traveling to another EU Member State.   .  .  If arriving directly from or traveling to a country outside the EU: amounts exceeding EUR 10,000.- or more or the equivalent in another currency (incl. banker's draft and cheques of any kind) must be declared....if you must report and possibly show the transported money upon...entry and exit to Switzerland from Italy and France/Germany ...and what may happen if you fail to do so. ..Be rest assured that the experiencing of Customs Officials (of any country) becoming quite ruthless will be the least of your problems if you are caught smuggling undeclared funds. ..Unfortunately the IATA data is not correct as Customs pages of the individual countries show:..Travelling within the European Union (EU)...check referenced sourses below for any changes...Austria, Croatia, Czech Republic, Estonia, Finnland, Greece, Hungary, Ireland, Latvia, Luxembourg, The Netherlands, Portugal, Romania, Slovak Republic, Slovenia and Sweden does not require or does not meantion any declaration requirements when entering entering or exiting a European Union country. ..United Kingdom (pre-Brexit conditions only) when travelling from another EU country ...no declaration is needed....  .    If the UK leaves the EU without a deal, you’ll need to declare cash of £10,000 or more (or the equivalent in another currency) up to 72 hours before arriving in the UK..  ...Belgium, Germany and Lithuania require you, when travelling from another EU country ...to declare sums >= € 10.000 when asked...Bulgaria, Cyprus, Denmark, France, Italy, Malta, Poland and Spain requires you to always ...declare sums >= € 10.000 on entry and exit...Pdf form for France in French .Pdf form for Italy (parent page Trasferimento di denaro contante, in case link breaks)....In the Italian version there is this friendly reminder of the possible sanctions, to encourage travelers to fill the form correctly.  ...  Sanctions.  .  In case of failure to produce the declaration or in case of incorrect or incomplete information, the person submitting the same declaration is punished with a sanction amounting to a minumum of €300 up to a maximum of 40% of the value of the transfer exceeding €10.000 (article 3 of Regulation 1889/2005/EC and article 9 of Legislative Decree n.195/2008) and the cash be subject to seizure (article 6 of Legislative Decree n.195/2008). Failure to indicate personal data of the person on whose behalf the transfer is made or the reporting of false data shall be punished - except where the act constitutes a more serious offence, by imprisonment from 6 months to a year and by a fine ranging from € 516,46 to € 5.164,57 (art. 5, c. 8 bis, of Decree Law 167/1990, transformed in Law 227/1990)....That law is probably what originated your misconceptions about Swiss Custom officers, while it is only an Italian matter. Also for small sums if you pay the fine on the spot you get a discount (to pay the higher amount between 200€ and 5% of the exceeding sum) and the remaining cash shall not be seized unless there are other issues...I would advise making 2 copies of each and ask the Customs to confirm the second copy in case you don't receive some sort of confirmation directly.   ..These confirmations should be retained since they may be helpful in the future to prove that you did everything correctly.  ....References...Transporting Money Across Borders (from @WeatherVane comment).IATA - Belgium Customs, Currency &amp; Airport Tax regulations details (from @Traveller comment) .Money laundering - Wikipedia .Austria - Entry from EU Countries.Belgien Customs in French .Bulgaria - MFA : Declaring cash .Croatia Customs - Brindging cash .Cyprus - Customs Cash Controls .Czech Republic - Entry from EU Countries.Denmark Customs in English .Estonia - Entry from EU Countries.Finnland - Cash check.French Customs in English.German Customs in English Travel within the EU .Greece - Athens International Airport .Hungary Customs in English.Ireland - Entry from EU Countries  .Italian Customs in English ...Note: I could not find any Pdf form ..Italian Tourism Official Website: Customs - Rights for Tourists - Info ...Note: the links of this page to Italian Customs no longer work..Latvia - Riga Airport .Lithuania - Vilniaus Airport .Luxembourg - Entry from EU Countries .Malta - Customs Cash Controls .Netherlands - Entry from EU Countries .Poland - Migrant Info - Entry from EU Countries .Portugal - Lisbon Airport .Romania - Customs in Romanian .Slovak Republic Customs General Rules in English.Slovenia Financial Information in English.Spain Tax Office in Spanish .Spain Aena Airport Operator - Movement of goods and Money .Sweden Customs in English .EU Cash Declaration Forms as Pdf ...If no form is listed (Italy, Spain, the United Kingdom), please contact the customs authorities of those Member States for instructions..Italy Pdf form.France, you have to use the French national form ...(only available in French)...Spain: Online Form Statement of payment methods S-1 ..gov.uk: Take cash in and out of the UK (as of 29.09.2019)...with notes about Post-Brexit conditions .Download and fill in [form C9011][901] or get a copy at the port or airport...Norway - Customs Cash >= NKr 25.000.Switzerland Customs: Cash, foreign currencies, securities ..
