I had a ski trip planned from 14th March - 21st March. .I arrived in the French ski resort at 15:00 on 14th March and by 23:00 the French government went into lock down and ordered all non-essential businesses to close immediately - including ski resorts. ..Fearing being stuck in the resort, the next morning I changed my return flight from 21st March to 16th March and had to pay extra fees...I tried to contact my insurance company but they did not answer. I was also in a rush as my accommodation has ordered me to leave, but I do not have proof of this in writing unfortunately...I am now trying to claim these extra fees back from my insurance company but they are stating that because the FCO (UK Govt) did not announce non essential travel until the 17th March I have no claim. ..The exact wording in my travel policy for curtailment is:...  If you have to curtail your trip as a result of the Travel Advice Unit of the Foreign &amp; Commonwealth Office.  (FCO), the World Health Organisation (WHO) or similar body recommending evacuation from the country or.  specific area in which you are travelling, providing the directive came into force after you purchased this.  insurance and after you have left your Country of Residence to commence the trip (whichever is the later)....And the reply from my insurance company was:...  Unfortunately, from the information you provided, it would appear as shown above, the reason you abandoned your trip is not included in the specified incidents for which cover is provided under the policy. .  You paid the fee to amend your flight on the 15th of March, however, the FCO advice to travel to/from France came into force on the 17th of March. We are therefore unable to consider your claim further....This is really cheeky of them and they clearly don't want to pay out. I need some advice on the fact that I was already abroad at the time of this announcement - the host country has ordered everything to close and therefore my trip will be cut short. ..What points can I argue that my policy is in fact valid and I am due a refund?.Thanks.
