Containment..The most important factor is containment:...In the epicenter 60 million people were locked down. So if you can't leave your home you can't infect others nor get infected by others..Across the country 780 million people were under travel restrictions..Some areas only one family member is allowed to leave the home every 2 days to get supplies..Community Committees (non existent in most other countries) deliver food and check on condition of those locked down....Today China is changing into "targeted containment" where certain cities with no new cases for five days still have borders closed but allow citizens to now move freely within city borders...Some other considerations:...China is very nimble in setting up a 1,000 bed hospital in a week (16 were setup I believe)..China was quick to develop a 15 minute test kit for Novel Coronavirus]2. This allows infected people to be quickly separated and allows those not infected to continue without undue fear or restrictions on work, school or family relations. By comparison US refused (for a week) to test people in a deadly infected Washington State Nursing Home where at least 50 staff in inmates, um er residents, are showing symptoms..CT scans. When labs could no longer keep up to number of test samples, hospitals in China resorted to cat scans of the lungs as reported February 13th. There have been no reports in the media if US hospitals have CT scanning machines that doctors know how to read to classify a patient as "presumptive positive". There was mild upheaval when China included CT scan cases in their daily reports......What "we" started doing March 8, 2020 similar to China..You don't say who "we" are but I presume it is EU / North America. From that point of view Italy has just implemented a policy a little less strict than China today. The daily link contents will change tomorrow so I'll include March 8, 2020 (GMT) link contents here:...  ITALY EMERGENCY MEASURES.  .  16 days after the beginning of the outbreak, the Italian government.  took decree today to take exceptional measures to contain about 16.  million Italians living in 14 provinces in the north of the country,.  as well as restrictive measures covering the whole country. [source].  .  Northern Italy under lockdown.  .  (... SNIP original March 8, 2020 post shortened on March 12, 2020...).  .  .  Sports competitions are suspended with some exceptions.  ...Had the national restrictions been implimented a fortnight ago the lockdown may have been less severe today (March 8, 2020). ..Also note like China, Italy has been using the 15 minute test kit presumably backed up by the two to five day lab testing which they say is more accurate.....March 9, 2020 update..Today Italy expanded the "lockdown" to the entire nation of 60 million people. Still it isn't as targeted a restriction as China implemented against Wuhan and the province it was in (circles of protection like Linux Kernel and User Space tools)...Today Israel announced all people coming into the country must undergo 14 day quarantine. This would include all Americans who historically have been the biggest supporters and creators of Israel...Note Israel's actions go above and beyond the steps China has taken. It more akin to the steps some regions took during the Spanish Flu of 1918. Sorry direct link not available I recall researching this a few days / week ago...Although Israel is using a stronger tactic than which China took two things have to be considered:...People weren't swarming to get to China in February 2020 with USA.declaring it Persona Non-Grata in nation terms.  .Benjamin Netenyahu is facing American Style impeachment and might be using people and this growing pandemic as a "human shield" of sorts from his personal problems....I think the 15 minute field test kit which takes blood sample was what made China successful but only they can answer that and the MSM I have access to isn't asking those questions to seek answers. Currently schools are closing down in USA and other western countries because someone came back from an infected country without giving them a 15 minute field blood test first.....March 10, 2020 Update..Correction to yesterday..I read in Haeratz (sp?) Newspaper online today that Netenyahu exempted Israeli's returning from America from the 14 day quarantine. I don't believe any science backs up the fact returning from a special mission to America exempts one from the Coronavirus...Lab tests can fail too..Alarmingly in Japan someone infected on the Princess Cruise ship and then cleared for release was still infected because 15 minute blood test wasn't done, just the swab lab test. Note the link is only valid for 24 hours then you have to scroll to March 10:....China developed the 15 minute field test kit on January 31, 2020 and an American company claims to have developed the same 15 minute field test kit. Both are banned by the American CDC though because it measures those who have antibodies fighting the CoronaVirus (stage 1) and antibodies that have defeated the Coronavirus (stage 2). It does not test for the Coronavirus itself...If you know who has defeated the Coronavirus and have antibodies they are the safest people to have assisting the at risk segment of the population. China nor any other country has said they are doing this though...Screening everyone crossing the land/air/sea border with a 15 minute test would go a long way to slowing down the virus spread. I hope the reason for not using the 15 minute test isn't because there isn't enough profit in it for labs. Remember to date "our" labs have mostly test people who don't have the virus. With the 15 minute test kit they would be testing people who 90% odds do have the virus...New Rochelle New York State takes a page from China's play book..Tomorrow the Army is moving into New York according to Aljazeera TV to seal off the city and not let anyone leave. Plus they will distribute food to those in quarantine which mimics what China's community committees were doing as posted earlier...This disease for America and EU is unique in that the "jet-setters" / wealthy like the rich Northern region of Italy (initial ground zero) are the global spreaders of the disease (besides local transmission which takes of a week or two later)...The downfall of this lockdown in New York state is it is announced two days before it takes effect giving infected people time to flee and infect others. Had those fleeing been tested it would have mitigated / reduced the chances of virus spread...To Mask or not to Mask that is the question...Coronavirus: put a surgical mask on, Hong Kong welfare chief Law Chi-kwong told..A survey of nurses in America recently revealed many of them were never trained on how to put on PPE yet this is construction worker safety 101 (at least it was when I was working in construction and not warehousing)...Green/Yellow/Red barcodes..China is using colour coded identification for people in Wuhan (ground zero) according to Aljazeera just now. Green = good to go, Yellow = warning, Red = No go. The government controls colour code assignments it was not reported how the colour codes are derived but it might be beneficial for other nations' red-tape departments to learn.....March 11, 2020 Update..Today Italy changed the lock-down to a shutdown:...  Italy closes all commercial activities, offices, cafes, shops. Only.  transportation, pharmacies, groceries will remain open...This sounds a lot like what China did for Wuhan and surrounding area...Today the WHO (World Health Organization) declared the New Coronavirus (circa 2019) a global pandemic in hopes it will spur "our" governments to take more aggressive measures to contain the virus. In other words to be more like China which is what the OP is asking above...USA announces all flights from Europe will be cancelled..Effective Friday March 13th the USA will ban all flights from Europe. The more important thing would be to track down all people who arrived from Europe over the last 14 days and test them. Flights from UK are still allowed but no word if Chunnel will be closed. UK has not announced a vote for CVexit.....March 12, 2020 Update..Canada's Prime Minister..The wife of the Prime Minister of Canada is suspected of being infected from in the United Kingdom on a speaking engagement (a high risk adventure IMO):...  In a press release on Thursday, the Prime Minister’s Office said she.  has received a test for the new coronavirus after her symptoms emerged.  last night following her return from a trip to the U.K., where she had.  been doing speaking engagements..  .  While the prime minister has no symptoms, he is self-isolating until.  her test results are back..  .  “The doctor’s advice to the prime minister is to continue daily.  activities while self-monitoring, given he is exhibiting no symptoms.  himself. However, out of an abundance of caution, the prime minister.  is opting to self-isolate and work from home until receiving Sophie’s.  results,” the release said....The Prime Minister's Doctor gave the wrong advise. At my workplace yesterday they announced a coworker was being tested (4 days for results) and is self isolate because his wife works with a Doctor who had tested positive. So we have two health "professionals" the one in Ottawa Canada playing fast &amp; loose, the one in Edmonton Canada erring on the side of caution...Everyone at work is worrying now. I wish we had the 15 minute field test kit so we can quickly separate the "suspected wheat" from the "suspected chaff". The good news is unlike the USA we can do tests on possible cases here in Edmonton Canada. Tom Hanks is also thankful today he could be tested in positive Australia and wasn't in the USA would they would refuse to test him...China is a surveillance state which can control social media and MSM for sure. Canada and USA could utilize the anti-terrorism network built a decade ago including no-fly lists and turn it into a "anti-coronavirus" network. Another example of what "we" could be doing more like China using existing computer databases and surveillance tracking resources...What Alberta announced today..EDMONTON -- As part of a new aggressive measure to fight the coronavirus pandemic, Alberta is cancelling all large gatherings and advising against international travel. Furthermore the link states:...  The province is advising Albertans against travelling.  internationally..  .  "Given the rapid spread of this virus, it is no longer possible to.  assess health risks for the duration of the trip," Hinshaw said..  .  She is also recommending all Albertans currently outside of Canada to.  self-isolate for 14 days after their trip..  .  Hinshaw said the risk of contracting coronavirus in Alberta has not.  changed in the past 24 hours, but is concerned that international.  travellers will continue to bring the disease into the province....With only 23 confirmed cases Alberta is taking early steps to contain the virus without overreacting. The next steps (if cases increase) would be to close beauty parlours, bars and restaurants but I'm biased as I never frequent such establishments. Also I would stop sending fire fighters to non-essential traffic accidents and paramedic responses to save them for well, fighting fires. Random thought would be for Alberta to have disposable surgical gloves at self-serve gas stations for patrons to don before grasping the nozzle to fill up the tank...Another possible step would be to begin skype (TVOIP) talks with Canadian Military which has a base close to Edmonton with feasibility of "drafting" Canadian troops living there. The purpose is for embedding troops with Edmonton Peace Officers and Edmonton Police in a combined "counter-coronavirus-force" under a central command and control...Why troops? It was what my first bus driver after work (I take four buses home after work and am concerned they will shut down in two to three weeks and I'll have to buy a bicycle) said today: "I hope the banks don't run out of money. This led to a long explanation about fractional reserve banking, gold standard, four Federal Reserve Central banks going bankrupt, currency generated digitally and how not enough real money exists. Anyway more fire power is preferable to not enough when you need it. Besides even if heavy weaponry isn't needed you can always call it a drill and lets face it NATO military doesn't see much "action" anyway and will enjoy the "call to arms" if nothing else...Staying on topic, there are no reports I've read that China took these steps and used the military but I "imagine" they would have.....March 14, 2020 Update..Getting downvotes so might have to end these "Save the World who doesn't care Q&amp;A" updates...Today Italy announced:...  Italy's health system is overwhelmed:.  .  .  "We're close to the point of no return for intensive care beds in Lombardy. We have 15 to 20 intensive care beds left. With 85 new.  people entering ICU every day and 2 or 3 leaving, we're close to the.  point of no return. "There are no more ambulances" - Lombardy Welfare.  Councilor Gallera added - "and therefore someone will have to wait.  late in the evening." [source] 732 patients are currently treated in.  intensive care in Lombardy, and 76 new deaths were reported in the.  region today..  In Bergamo, "deaths have quintupled from a week ago. There is a burial every half hour" said Councilor for Cemetery Services Giacomo.  Angeloni. "There are many elderly people at home with breathing.  difficulties. They are not hospitalized because the hospitals are.  full" said the mayor of Alzano Lombardo Carmelo Bertocchi..  ...What would China do?..Hard to say their society is different. What should Italy do? Easier to say if they are like Canada...Temporarily suspend medical laws. Commandeer white crew cab pickup trucks from dealers at cost plus twenty. Paint red crosses on left and right. Staff with four able-bodied young men. Put a mattress in the box...Take that 80 person call center designed to rip off seniors with calls to support the Fireman's Burn Unit and Police feed the children fund. Have them call people over 65 twice a day. If they don't answer send aforementioned four men in a pick up truck...A week ago China would have build 1,000 bed hospitals that take a week to complete. NATO countries should do the same a week before where Italy is today. Scrap white collar surveyors, architects and engineers. Send in the blue collar labourers, concrete finishers, electricians, plumbers, skid steer operators, truck drivers, crane operators, foremen and carpenters with blue prints that China used...Spain's lockdown today should have exempted warehousing and transportation of food and drugs workers. They will think of that tomorrow...President Trump's test announced today seems like "fake news" if the test only works when upper respiratory tract is infected when a nasal swab is taken. However the kind of test taken was not announced...China web guru is donated 500,000 test kits to USA today. No word if 100 labs and 1,000 lab workers are included to analyze test results.....I visited the world's second largest mall today. I noticed the indoor hockey rink was closed (like the NHL (I could fix that in a week I think)) and replaced with a bead trinket / fake rock sales flea market. One vendor had a dry cough and another was wearing surgical gloves...There was a sign outside the bathroom hallway from Alberta Health advising people how to wash hands. At Galaxy land I saw a few amusement ride employees cleaning surfaces. So if they close all the schools here they end up in Galaxy land?..Schools should stay open because teachers know their students better than a random ride attendant. However reinstate the old days where students queue when the first bell rings. Then forehead point and shoot temperature checks will be done...Allergy season is arriving and probably 10% of the population is effected with running nose and sneezing. They should get a card or something to alleviate the fears of others on the bus or airplane...People under 30 getting and recovering from BSC should be verified and coveted. Being over 50 I'm not really scared but I'm worried I'll infect that elderly man hobbling down the street today at -20C with his cane. My bus may be no safer for him than ETS DATs. Which reminds me shouldn't they be cleaning the buses here?..Callous individuals surround us and say "they are old" lets kill them all with the virus. Forward thinkers will realize they will be old too someday. What would China do? I think they would "respect their elders"...Gee Jing Ping (Xi Jingping) wore a mask and sat meters away from other officials when he announced Wuhan (Think Washington DC) and Wubie Province (Think Washington State) had overcome the virus (we don't know that is true yet)...On the other hand Trump and officials wore no PPE and all touched the Mic in some sort of "speaking is more important than reality" press conference yesterday (Friday the 13th)...If someone on the bus wears a mask don't freak out. They may be trying to protect you or chances are they are just scared. Don't pick on them...I have no idea if all of this transpired in China but their culture is different than NATO's and we must adapt because the end results are what count. Life, Liberty and Freedom can be mutually exclusive. For a few months you will have to give up Freedom to save Life. China did do that and appears to have succeeded today. What will history say about YOU?....March 16, 2020 Update..Today Canada announced closing borders to all foreign nationals except US citizens. What would China do?...About two weeks ago the border to Washington state would have been sealed off..Because people there flow into B.C. the Alberta / BC border would have been sealed off....What to do today to mimic China?...100 million people live beside the US / Canada border. They like to make day trips to mimic currency arbitrage and buy goods cheaper in other country. This traffic should be shut down..Canadian health care is free, Americans in past have utilized that system, that should be shut down..Everyone crossing border by land should be subject to 5 second forehead temperature check with $60 gun. Those with fever must seek medical attention..Some border crossing like Edmundston New Brunswick and Madawaska, ME, United States are like their own little country. They can manage their own laws and have to worry about keeping outsiders out of both towns....China succeeded at first locking down Wuhan City and then Hubie province. Italy tried that and failed. Canada / US appears headed for even bigger failure thinking it will save the economy. Perhaps it will in the short term but more long term planning is still needed:...Airlines will ask for bailouts. Tell them to go bankrupt and create new startups in a couple of years..Edmonton schools are closing for six months. Send teachers out to work for four months even if it is sanitizing buses. After all you are making parents leave work to child care and still expect them to pay 12 months of school taxes right?.It's proposed to pay people unemployment. $800 every two weeks might be fine for 80% of the population but an airline pilot can't live on that if his mortgage and car payments are more than that per month. Don't give the money to company CEOs that lay off all the workers in order to support stock price..Accept the fact Great Depression can be approaching and learn from those mistakes. People to plan to fail, they fail to plan - like with USA test kits..Communism at $20/hour is better than capitalism with chance for $200/hr. when reality is $0/hr. No word if China will revert back to communism but their journey is shorter than Canada's would be and especially America's..My bus driver was in a state of shock an hour ago as she was told tomorrow buses would be running on Saturday schedule which means that bus would not be running. The city bus website had no information on this. Don't make such knee-jerk reactions wait a week even if buses are 25% of capacity before making such announcements..City of Edmonton website said one employee returning from vacation tested positive but it wasn't related to Recreational Facility or other services closing today. Makes me think it is swimming pool and wonders why they refuse to say?.Border closing by Canada and saying 14 self-isolation for all arriving (EXCEPT US CITIZENS who are immune to SARS 2.0 apparently) me they are math challenged. worldometers.com states some claim incubation period of 2 to 14 days with 5.2 days mean time which is what they are getting 14 from. Others say 0 to 28 days but that isn't the point. They should have said if you are arrived from Italy, Egypt, France, Germany, Washington State, Cruise Ship or blah blah 13 days ago then self isolate for 1 day, if 12 days ago then self isolate for 2 days, etc etc up to today arrivals isolate for 14 days..No mention if doctors will be trained how to read CT scan of lungs..No mention if blood test to measure SARS 2.0 anti-bodies will be done. Criminal negligence almost not learning what China learned and shared with the world..Also consider giving bus drivers temperature guns so I can get my temperature checked twice a day too and self-isolate if necessary. Then call dispatch for mini-bus making circles picking feverish people up to pick them up. Travel by planes offer and border crossings offer great chances to take 5 second temperature check but you need to think out of the box sometimes. Research a few weeks ago revealed only 100 ICU beds in Edmonton and Ventilators can't be ordered over night but temperature guns can be ordered over night....They warned us weeks ago to get 14 day supply and I did. Today Doug Ford of Ontario told people to stop buying and "hoarding". Make up your mind......Final thoughts for what China would do?..They would lift sanctions against the people of Syria and Iran who suffered enough already in USA bid to cause social unrest due to mass human suffering...Indeed sanctions against Iran and Syria in the first place, China would have voted down if such a measure was introduced in the United Nations Security Council. We can only imagine how decapitated the hospitals in Northern parts of Syria are now with White Helmets running amok to make Oscar award winning videos backed by the guns of ISIS. Witnessing the lies of test kits and extrapolating to other lies like White Helmets things begin to make sense. Would you like a cup of Karma with your reality check?..Crisis can be an opportunity for change and we can watch how China handles it and hopefully treat them as a three month indication to the future of Covidi-9...RT reported that China sent medical experts and supplies to Italy after the EU denied support...Edmonton closed schools today but high school kids were still traveling in buses and associating in groups. It does little good to close schools and still allow kids to associate. China locked down homes and anyone traveling had to produce national ID cards. There are no national ID cards in Canada, my only cards are a debit card and library card (closed in Edmonton as of today). I also carry a bus pass which might have limited value starting tomorrow.....OP's valid question what did China do is almost totally ignored by the Media here whilst USA tries to steal vaccines from other nations to make a fast buck for Trump. Lets make this clear if and when a vaccine is create dit belongs to BSC (Bat Sourced Coronavirus) owner in China who gives it away to the world for free. No patents. No arguments. That said SARS 1.0 vaccine was 13 years in the making before being scrapped in 2016. The world has to stop focusing on maybe's and deal with reality that changes by the hour and is unique to every region and the resources they have in play...This reminds me of Inventory Control training at work where last week he had to reverse adjustments to stock so this week he has to do the same thing for a different SKU. WRONG. It's on a case by case basis and every case is different. Open your universities 24/7 to develop a vaccine and analyze all those drive through test samples sure. Closing them is about the worst thing you could have done with available resources.....Where are the flight manifests of everyone who arrived from Italy, Germany and the Netherlands over the last 30 days? Were they given to the city of Edmonton Police? Real judges have subpoena powers. It's great you closed BS family court with he-said she-said soap opera now lets get the real judges and real law enforcement working. Politicians with silver spoons including Trudeau &amp; Trump have no idea of how the real world works...China and Korea (both Republic and Democratic sides) seem to have their act together. As does New Zealand one of the "five Eyes" which seems to have had their eye open. Putin and Netenyahu seem more concerned with political extensions. Trump saw a picture of him photo-shopped image playing the violin and tweeted he likes it whilst completely oblivious to the reference "Nero fiddled while Rome burned". The media is devoting too much attention to politicians and not doing investigative journalism. Four words; Fifteen Minute Blood Test. Since you have ten fingers three more; Border Temperature Checks...What would China do?..I imagine by now they would have tracked down all the people that have been to "Life Care" (Oxymoron) nursing home in Washington USA and Lynn Valley nursing home in North Vancouver, Canada (been there seen that). No word on if USA and Canada have done that yet???..Also no word from investigative journalists interviewing "health care professionals" on if they travel between nursing homes because they are "specialists"?..Finally on Saturday March 14, 2020 Apple closed all it's stores outside of China and reopened them inside China. I visited West Edmonton Mall and sure enough the store was closed with 4 blue t-shirt clad employees outside closed doors and I said "So it's true" (what Tim Cook said). Investigative journalists be asking themselves what Tech companies knew before their governments did. Look how Facebook and Google closed down events a week or fortnight before your governments did. Ask yourself the 5W's and sometimes how?....March 17, 2020..Happy St. Patrick's Day. Plans to go out tonight got cancelled because Alberta declared a state of emergency...Guy at work was sent home for coughing because "it's not safe". Unemployment will cover a percentage of his wage if he gets tested positive for Covid-19 but you can't see a doctor if you are coughing. Viscous circle / Catch 22...USA announce 1 trillion in "juice" for the economy. I used my "Big Number Calculator" and it tells me "1T / 300M" = 3K. That will tie an average person over for a month...Some or many people will be traumatized after a few months of Cabin Fever and never fly again, take a cruise again or trust a stranger again. A crime wave unknown in recent memory could sweep across NATO countries of diversity...Hit 30k on this answer :(.
